(The name is not a mispelling).

- How to compile it ?
Edit the Makefile and use make.

- My compiler can't find stricmp.
Replace it by strcasecmp (case independent comparison). Some config.h already
have the
#define stricmp strcasecmp
seems not to be quite standard yet.

- It isn't fast enough.
If you can, try to coerce root into installing it under his name, with
a setuid.. Then tracker will renice itself to -15, which should solve most
of your problems. DON'T DO THAT !!! I was young and stupid when I
suggested that... there are security holes bigger than the whole moon in
that program, installed suid.
On the sparcs, I've been able to check that gcc DEFINITELY outputs a better
program than sun's own acc !!! (been able to output gslinger at 44Khz stereo
on a sparc5, which sun's version was unable to achieve)

- I can't get any sound out of my machine.
Check that it is configured properly. Most sparcs/sgis have an independant
software volume control. The sparc has a software switch between headphones
and loudspeaker too. Get sure your audio output is getting where you want.
Hps are not necessarily installed with audio. There are several ports to
hpux working with various models of the audio hw. Your mileage may vary.

- I still don't get any sound.
Make sure you have some audio hardware.

- I can't get it to compile on my silicon graphics.
Maybe you don't have any audio software. If it doesn't find audio
include files/libraries, that's a good bet.
From Irix 5.3 on, the audio package has been rebundled BACK into the
developper's package. Upgrading might be a solution.
The other problem with sgi is that their standard make is not quite powerful
enough to handle macro substitution inside macro substitution. Up to you to
write a good Makefile (and maybe send it to me) or compile tracker by hand...
Installing gnumake on your machine is also a solution.
Don't forget to copy the Sgi/config.h to config.h, or else your modules will
sure sound weird !

- I can't get it to compile on my sparc.
If you don't have acc (ansi c compiler), tracker also works ok with old cc 
and gcc. Speed options may not be necessary on your machine, 
but they help sparc 5/10/20 to output sound at higher frequencies.
The fastest tracker yet has been built with gcc.
Also, sun periodically change the audio include filename from sun/audioio.h
to sys/audio.io.h to some other weird combination. Shoot them.

- I can't get it to compile on my solaris sparc.
You should use the special target `solaris' which is a full port to solaris 2.2
by Dave Tiller.
Also, sun periodically change the audio include filename from sun/audioio.h
to sys/audio.io.h to some other weird combination. Shoot them.

- I can't get it to compile on my PC with soundblaster.
Perfectly normal. I don't have any PC to test it with, as the original PC
code was written by someone else. I've tried to keep it mostly intact, but
there might be some trivial mistake in soundblaster_audio.c.
Also, you need to modify termio.c. I think it has to do with getche() or
something like it, but I don't really want to know.
Anyhow, if you write the necessary patch, please send it my way.

- I can't get it to compile on my PC with linux.
Ask hasvolai@cc.helsinki.fi (Hannu Savolainen).

- I can't get it to compile on my NeXTstep machine.
Ask Rolf Grossman...

- I can't get it to work on my DECstation.
The code use a package called AudioFile. It is a public domain audio package
available from DEC crl.dec.com aka 192.58.206.2, /pub/DEC/AF.
the software will run on a number of platforms: Sun/NeXT/SGI/DEC.
 The AF_audio.c code sends the sound directly to the AudioFile server.
 There is but a slight problem! It Seg Faults when closing the Audio
connection...dunno why, haven't been able to get rid of it!
 Uses 2 environment variables:
 AUDIOFILE - the name of the audio server to connect to for mono
playback. And for the Left Channel in stereo playback. eg. "machine:0"
 AUDIORIGHT - the name of the audio server for the Right Channel when
playing stereo.
This code is only tested for DEC 5000/20, 5000/25, Ultrix 4.2, Ultrix 4.3....
so I can't vouch for how well it'll work on other machines!!!!

- I can't change the volume of the sound.
That's intentional. There are other programs that do that quite well.
What you really want is an audio control panel. There are some nifty ones
around, just search carefully. There is no need for tracker to support variable
volume.

- The sound output seems hashed.
Your machine isn't running fast enough for the quality you're trying to get.
If you don't have stereo output, don't forget to specify mono.
Get rid of oversample first, this is a big cpu-eater. Then get rid of -show
as well. If that doesn't work, you'll have to revert to a smaller frequency.
tracker is normally aware of the current frequency on the sgi and sparcs,
so if you have a control panel that allows it, change the frequency. You don't
have to restart tracker (usually).

- There are some ``not supported'' messages from time to time.
tracker doesn't support the whole set of protracker commands, so it tells
you when it doesn't play something the way it's supposed to be played.

- tracker stops when playing some files.
Try -tolerant. If it still doesn't work, send a bug report.

- This module doesn't sound like it should.
Check that. be sure you were using the right player on an amiga. If you
still have something weird, you may have a bug. Try e-mailing me.

- when tracker exits, my terminal is in some funky mode. 
Shouldn't happen anymore. It definitely did in some previous version.
Send me some email !

	Marc Espie (espie@ens.fr)
